we're gonna share a lot of Secrets today
you and I and in doing so I hope that we
can lift some of the shame many of us
feel about sex how many here have ever
been catcalled by a stranger lots of
women for me the time I remember best is
when that stranger was a student of mine
he came up to me after class that night
and his words confirmed what I already
knew
I'm so sorry professor if I had known it
was you I would never have said those
things I wasn't a person to him until I
was his professor this concept called
objectification is the foundation of
sexism and we see it reinforced through
every aspect of our lives we see it in
the government that refuses to punish
men for raping women we see it in
advertisements how many of you have seen
an advertisement that uses a woman's
breasts to sell an entirely unrelated
product or movie after movie after movie
that portrays women as only love
interests these examples might seem
inconsequential and harmless but their
insidious slowly building into a culture
that refuses to see women as people we
see this in the school that sends home a
ten-year-old girl because her clothes
were a distraction to boys trying to
learn or the government that refuses to
punish men for raping women over and
over or the woman who is killed because
she asked a man to stop grinding on her
on the dance floor media plays a large
role in perpetuating the objectification
of women let's consider the classic
romantic comedy we're typically
introduced to two kinds of women in
these movies
two kinds of desirable women anyway the
first is the sexy bombshell this is the
unbelievably gorgeous woman with the
perfect body our leading man has no
trouble identifying her and even less
trouble having sex with her the second
is our leading lady the beautiful but
demure woman our leading man falls in
love with despite not noticing her at
first or not liking her as he did the
first is the [ __ ] she is to be consumed
and forgotten she's much too available
the second is desirable but modest and
therefore worthy of our leading man's
future babies marriage material
we're actually told that women have two
roles so on but these two roles have a
difficult time existing within the same
woman on the rare occasion that I share
with a new acquaintance that I study sex
if they don't end the conversation right
then
they're usually pretty intrigued Oh tell
me more so I do I'm really interested in
studying the sexual behaviors of
pregnant and postpartum couples at this
point I get a different kind of response
Oh huh do pregnant people even have sex
have you thought about studying sexual
desire or orgasms that would be
interesting and sexy tell me what are
the first words that come to mind when
you picture a pregnant woman I asked
this question in a survey of over 500
adults and most responded with belly or
round and cute this didn't surprise me
too much what else do we label as cute
babies puppies kittens the elderly right
when we label an adult as cute though we
take away a lot of their intelligence
their complexity we reduce them to
childlike qualities I also asked
heterosexual men to imagine a woman that
they're partnered with is pregnant and
then asked women to imagine that they
are pregnant and then tell me the first
words that come to mind when they
imagine having sex most of the responses
were negative gross awkward not sexy odd
and comfortable how not worth the
trouble not worth the risk that last one
really stuck with me we might think that
because we divorced pregnant women and
moms from sexuality we're removing the
sexual constraints the constraints of
sexual objectification they experience
less sexism right not exactly what
happens instead is a different kind of
objectification in my efforts to explain
this to others one conversation led to
the Venus of Willendorf a Paleolithic
figurine scholars assumed was a goddess
of love and beauty hence the name Venus
this theory was later revised though
when scholars noted the sculptors
obvious focus on the figurines
reproductive features large breasts
considered ideal for nursing around
possibly pregnant belly
the remnants of red dye alluding to
menstruation or birth they also assumed
that she was meant to be held or placed
lying down because her tiny feet don't
allow her to be freestanding she also
had no face for this reason it was
assumed that she was a representation of
fertility and not a portrait of a person
she was an object in the history of her
interpretation she went from object of
ideal beauty and love to object of
reproduction
I think this transition speaks more
about the scholars who have interpreted
her purpose than the actual purpose of
the figurine herself when a woman
becomes pregnant she leaves the realm of
men's sexual desire and slides into her
reproductive and child rearing role in
doing so she also becomes the property
of the community considered very
important but only because of her
because she's pregnant right I've taken
to calling this the Willendorf effect
and once again we see it reinforced in
many aspects of her life has anyone here
ever been visibly pregnant that's me
right so how many of you ever had a
stranger touch your belly during
pregnancy maybe without even asking your
permission first or told what you can
and cannot eat by somebody who's not
your doctor your medical care provider
or asked private questions about your
birth plan and then told why those
choices are all wrong yeah me too
or had a server refused to blink bring
you a glass of wine this one might give
you a pause I know but stay with me this
is a huge secret it is actually safe to
drink in moderation during pregnancy
many of us don't know this because
doctors don't trust pregnant women with
this secret
especially if she's less educated or a
woman of color what this tells us is
this Willendorf effect it's also
classist and racist it's present when
the government reminds when the
government reminds women with every new
anti choice bill that the contents of
her uterus are not her own or when an
ob/gyn says while it's safe to have sex
during pregnancy sometimes you never
know better safe than sorry right she's
denied basic privacy and bodily autonomy
under the guise of be a good mother we
don't trust her to make her own
decisions she's cute remember mm-hmm
when when we tell women that sexual
pleasure excuse me when we tell women
that sex isn't worth the risk during
pregnancy or we're telling her is that
her sexual pleasure doesn't matter so we
are telling her is that she in fact
doesn't matter even though the needs of
her her fetus are not at odds with her
own needs
so medical providers such as the
American College of obstetrics and
gynecology have the opportunity to
educate about the safety of sex during
pregnancy so what do the experts say
ACOG actually has no public official
statement about the safety of sex during
pregnancy guidance from the Mayo Clinic
is generally positive but presented with
the caveat although most women can have
safely have sex throughout pregnancy
sometimes it's best to be cautious some
women don't want to have sex during
pregnancy and that's okay some women do
want to have sex during pregnancy and
that's okay too
what needs to stop is society telling
women what they can and cannot do with
their bodies
[Applause]
pregnant women are not faceless identity
lists of vessels of reproduction who
can't stand on their own two feet but
the truth is the real secret is we tell
all women that their sexual pleasure
doesn't matter we refuse to even
acknowledge that women who have sex with
women or women who don't want children
even exist oh it's just a phrase she
just needs the right man to come along
every time a woman has sex simply
because it feels good it is
revolutionary
she is revolutionary she was pushing
back against society's insistence that
she exists simply for men's pleasure or
for reproduction
a woman who prioritizes her sexual needs
is scary because a woman who prioritizes
her sexual needs prioritizes herself
then that is a woman demanding that she
be treated as an equal
that is a woman who insists that you
make room for her at the tear at the
table of power and that is the most
terrifying of all because we can't make
room for her without some of us giving
up the extra space we hold
[Applause]
I have one last secret for you I'm the
mother of two boys and we could use your
help even though even though my boys
hear me here hear me say regularly that
it's important for men to recognize
women as equals and they see their
father modeling this we need what
happens in the world to reinforce what
happens in our home this is not a men's
problem or a woman's problem this is
everyone's problem and we all play a
role in dismantling systems of
inequality for starters we have got to
stop telling women what they can and
cannot do with their bodies this
includes not treating pregnant women
like community property if you don't
know her
don't even ask to touch her belly you
wouldn't anybody else don't tell her
what she can and cannot eat don't ask
her private details about her medical
decisions this also includes
understanding that even if you are
personally against abortion you can
still fight for a woman's right to
choose when it comes to women's equality
the two need not oppose one another if
you're somebody who has sex with women
prioritize her pleasure if you don't
know how ask if you have children
have conversations about sex as early as
possible because kids don't look up se X
in the dictionary anymore
they look it up on the Internet and when
you're having those conversations about
sex don't Center them on reproduction
only people have sex for many reasons
some because they want a baby but most
of us have sex because it feels good
admit it and regardless of whether you
have children or not support
comprehensive sex education that doesn't
shame our teenagers nothing positive
comes from shaming teens for their
sexual desires behaviors other than
positive STD and pregnancy tests every
single day we are all given the
opportunity to disrupt patterns of
inequality I think we can all agree that
it's worth the trouble to do so thank
you
[Applause]